# cardio
Cloud technology for Cardio

Problem Statement
American Heart Association reported that nearly half a million Americans die every year when their hearts stop beating during a cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death (SCD). SCD is unexpected death caused by loss of heart function (SCA - sudden cardiac arrest) is the largest cause of natural death in the United States, causing about 325,000 adult deaths each year. 
Sudden cardiac death, occurs during the nocturnal period at an annual rate of ~36000 in the United States. As only 12% of all cardiovascular deaths occur at night, it would appear that sleep is a time of relative protection against cardiovascular death. However,  that heightened susceptibility to sudden death coincides with periods of increased ischemia and arrhythmias, and concentrated during the 90 min of REM. Thus, the relative risk for sudden death during REM sleep may be as high as 1.2 times that of wakefulness.
REM sleep could initiate coronary plaque disruption, with death delayed until wakefulness. Clinical reports have provided evidence that REM sleep and dreams play an even greater role in precipitating myocardial infarction and sudden death in people already afflicted with coronary disease, and in people with respiratory disorders ranging from snoring to central and obstructive sleep apnea.
Thus listening your heart and oxygen level while you sleep could potentially be lifesaving. Researchers at University of Washington start building applications to utilize existing smartphones or smart speakers to listen to breathing. While they claim that chance of detecting agonic breathing is 97%,  considering various sounds that can interfere, it seems that direct measuring of heart pulse might be a more robust way  to detect heart abnormal activity. 
In those labs, we demonstrate the use  Google AI to measure heart pulse and make 911 call if abnormal activity detected. 
Also, we will demonstrate use of Sudden Cardiac Death Database to train Machine Learning model to predict Sudden Cardiac Arrest in advance.
